# MODEL1308180000: MODEL1308180000

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1308180000.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1308180000.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Rex2013 - Genome scale metabolic model of D.shibae (iDsh827)

The aerobic anoxygenic phototroph Dinoroseobacter shibae DFL12T is a
representative of an important group of marine bacteria called the Roseobacter
clade. To gain insight into the versatile metabolism of this clade, the
authors have taken a constraint-based approach and created this genome-scale
metabolic model (iDsh827). This model is the first one to account for the
energy demand of motility, the light-driven ATP generation and experimentally
determined specific biomass composition.

This model is described in the article:

[Swimming in light: a large-scale computational analysis of the metabolism of
Dinoroseobacter shibae.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/24098096)

Rex R, Bill N, Schmidt-Hohagen K, Schomburg D.

PLoS Comput Biol. 2013;9(10):e1003224.

Abstract:

The Roseobacter clade is a ubiquitous group of marine Î±-proteobacteria. To
gain insight into the versatile metabolism of this clade, we took a
constraint-based approach and created a genome-scale metabolic model (iDsh827)
of Dinoroseobacter shibae DFL12T. Our model is the first accounting for the
energy demand of motility, the light-driven ATP generation and experimentally
determined specific biomass composition. To cover a large variety of
environmental conditions, as well as plasmid and single gene knock-out
mutants, we simulated 391,560 different physiological states using flux
balance analysis. We analyzed our results with regard to energy metabolism,
validated them experimentally, and revealed a pronounced metabolic response to
the availability of light. Furthermore, we introduced the energy demand of
motility as an important parameter in genome-scale metabolic models. The
results of our simulations also gave insight into the changing usage of the
two degradation routes for dimethylsulfoniopropionate, an abundant compound in
the ocean. A side product of dimethylsulfoniopropionate degradation is
dimethyl sulfide, which seeds cloud formation and thus enhances the reflection
of sunlight. By our exhaustive simulations, we were able to identify single-
gene knock-out mutants, which show an increased production of dimethyl
sulfide. In addition to the single-gene knock-out simulations we studied the
effect of plasmid loss on the metabolism. Moreover, we explored the possible
use of a functioning phosphofructokinase for D. shibae.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[MODEL1308180000](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/\[model identifier \(of
the form BIOMD* for curated models\)\]) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


